# hybTree-Pipeline
Here we introduce a pipeline that is designed to simplify the process of phylogenetic tree construction by skipping the genome assembly and annotation step, and directly generating high-accuracy species-level trees using reference gene assemblies from across the genome.
# Description of the Pipeline
The pipeline involves pre-processing sequencing reads to ensure high-quality data for analysis. Raw sequencing reads are analyzed using FastQC and poor quality bases are trimmed using Trimmomatic v0.36 to ensure only high-quality reads are utilized. Hybpiper performs reference-based assembly of pre-processed reads, using specific aligners for nucleotide or amino acid sequences. The most suitable reference sequence for each gene and sample is identified based on alignment scores. Reads are sorted into directories corresponding to each gene in the reference set, and SPAdes reconstructs the reference gene sequence from the sorted reads. Extracted coding sequences are translated into amino acids using biopython, amino acid sequences are aligned using mafft v7.505 and then converted back to nucleotide sequences. The aligned nucleotide sequences are partitioned by genes and concatenated into a phylogenetic supermatrix using the catsequences tool. IQ-TREE v1.6.12 constructs a phylogenetic tree from the concatenated alignment, using the ModelFinder feature to identify the optimal substitution model for the data. The tree is then bootstrapped using UFBoot2 to determine the support for the tree's branches. Tree files can be then visualized in ETE toolkit or iTOL.
